README.md, before:

# generator-leviathan [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/leviathantech/generator-leviathan.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/leviathantech/generator-leviathan)

[Yeoman](http://yeoman.io) generator that scaffolds out a full stack Javascript web app using [angularjs](https://angularjs.org/), Grunt and Bower, Node and Express, MongoDB and Redis.

## Getting Started

### Using this generator:

[If you're not familiar with Yeoman and want to learn more](http://yeoman.io/learning/index.html)
[If you want to build your own generator](http://yeoman.io/authoring/index.html)

Install Yeoman:
```bash
$ npm install -g yo
```

To install generator-leviathan from npm, run:

```bash
$ npm install -g generator-leviathan
```

Finally, initiate the generator:

```bash
$ yo leviathan optionalAppName
```

### Recommended github and heroku setup:

run ```$ yo leviathan:deploy``` to setup both github and heroku automatically.

The command uses the following to setup Github:

```zsh
$ hub init
$ hub add . && hub commit -m "initial commit"
$ hub create optional_org_name/repo_name -d "description of repo"
$ hub push origin master
```

And to setup Heroku, it runs grunt build, copies over the Procfile, initializes the dist/ dir as a separate repository, and runs:

```zsh
$ heroku apps:create herokuAppName && heroku config:set NODE_ENV=production
$ git add -A && git commit -m "Initial commit"
$ git push heroku master
```

all of which you can of course do at the command line, provided you have both [hub](https://github.com/github/hub) and the [heroku toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) installed.

[More info on working with node in Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs#introduction)

The deploy generator also uses a plugin called heroku-config to push your local .env file to heroku.  Install it with:

```zsh
$ heroku plugins:install git://github.com/ddollar/heroku-config.git
```

Deployment requires that you have a remote mongo database to connect to.  You can use heroku addons to create one:

```zsh
 heroku addons:add mongolab
```

or you can [setup a mongolab account] and create one online. If you do this, just make sure to set the MONGOLAB_URI on heroku to the URI for accessing that db.


## Versioning and releases

This project uses semantic versioning and github for releases.  Releases can be created automatically using the grunt bump task, which will create a conventional changelog as well as a release.  For more, see:

[grunt-release](https://github.com/geddski/grunt-release)
[github on creating releases](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-releases/)
[grunt-conventional-changelog](https://github.com/btford/grunt-conventional-changelog)
[commit conventions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrDFcIiPjSLDn3EL15IJygNPiHORgU1_OOAqWjiDU5Y/edit)
[node-semver](https://github.com/npm/node-semver)

Commit message:

docs(versioning): add info about semantic versioning and grunt bump for automating releases

README.md, after:

# generator-leviathan [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/leviathantech/generator-leviathan.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/leviathantech/generator-leviathan)

[Yeoman](http://yeoman.io) generator that scaffolds out a full stack Javascript web app using [angularjs](https://angularjs.org/), Grunt and Bower, Node and Express, MongoDB and Redis.

## Getting Started

### Using this generator:

[If you're not familiar with Yeoman and want to learn more](http://yeoman.io/learning/index.html)
[If you want to build your own generator](http://yeoman.io/authoring/index.html)

Install Yeoman:
```bash
$ npm install -g yo
```

To install generator-leviathan from npm, run:

```bash
$ npm install -g generator-leviathan
```

Finally, initiate the generator:

```bash
$ yo leviathan optionalAppName
```

### Recommended github and heroku setup:

run ```$ yo leviathan:deploy``` to setup both github and heroku automatically.

The command uses the following to setup Github:

```zsh
$ hub init
$ hub add . && hub commit -m "initial commit"
$ hub create optional_org_name/repo_name -d "description of repo"
$ hub push origin master
```

And to setup Heroku, it runs grunt build, copies over the Procfile, initializes the dist/ dir as a separate repository, and runs:

```zsh
$ heroku apps:create herokuAppName && heroku config:set NODE_ENV=production
$ git add -A && git commit -m "Initial commit"
$ git push heroku master
```

all of which you can of course do at the command line, provided you have both [hub](https://github.com/github/hub) and the [heroku toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) installed.

[More info on working with node in Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-nodejs#introduction)

The deploy generator also uses a plugin called heroku-config to push your local .env file to heroku.  Install it with:

```zsh
$ heroku plugins:install git://github.com/ddollar/heroku-config.git
```

Deployment requires that you have a remote mongo database to connect to.  You can use heroku addons to create one:

```zsh
 heroku addons:add mongolab
```

or you can [setup a mongolab account] and create one online. If you do this, just make sure to set the MONGOLAB_URI on heroku to the URI for accessing that db.


## Versioning and releases

Use: ```$ grunt bump:releaseType``` to create new releases with changelogs.
Release type should be one of patch, minor, major, or prerelease

This project uses semantic versioning and github for releases.  Releases can be created automatically using the grunt bump task, which will create a conventional changelog as well as a release.  For more, see:

[grunt-release](https://github.com/geddski/grunt-release)
[github on creating releases](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-releases/)
[grunt-conventional-changelog](https://github.com/btford/grunt-conventional-changelog)
[commit conventions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QrDFcIiPjSLDn3EL15IJygNPiHORgU1_OOAqWjiDU5Y/edit)
[node-semver](https://github.com/npm/node-semver)
